docs: how to create a blog post (#3285)
keptn/lifecycle-toolkit: docs/docs/contribute/docs/blog.md

---
comments: true
---

# Blogs

Blogs are authored in markdown,
submitted and reviewed as PRs,
published as part of the "Documentation" web site,
and built using the same tools and GitHub practices
as other documentation.
However, you must take a few additional steps when writing a blog.

Keptn uses the
[blog plugin from mkdocs-material](https://squidfunk.github.io/mkdocs-material/setup/setting-up-a-blog/)
to manage the blog infrastructure.
To integrate your blog with the blog plugin,
you must also do the following:

* Create an entry in the `docs/blog/.authors.yml` file
  for each author of the blog.

* The GitHub user ID used to identify yourself

>   in the `docs/.authors.yml` file

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  in the `docs/blog/.authors.yml` file
```

  must be added to the `.github/actions/spelling/expect.txt` file
  so that the spell checker knows about it.

* Blog source is added to the `docs/blog/posts` directory.
  Individual blogs are not listed in the `mkdocs.yaml` file
  like other documentation.
  Instead, the blog plugin manages integration of all blogs
  with source in the `blogs` directory.

* Additional metadata is required as part of the source files's front matter.

Each of these requirements is discussed on this page.

## Populate docs/blog/.authors.yml file

The value of the `authors:` field in the blog's front matter
links to an entry in the `blogs/authors.yml` file.
The blog plugin uses this information to render author information
on the blog page.

The basic fields that we require are documented here.
For information about additional fields that are available, see the mkdocs
[authors_file](https://squidfunk.github.io/mkdocs-material/plugins/blog/#config.authors_file).

```yaml
authors:
  ...
  <GitHub-UserID>:
    name: <Fullname>
    description: <Role>
    avatar: <avatar-for-picture>
    url: <Github-URL-for-user>
```

> ### author.yml fields

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### authors.yml fields
```

    * **url:** -- URL for your record on GitHub.

### authors.yml example

```yaml
authors:
  ...
  sampleuser:
    name: Sample User
    description: Senior Software Developer, Example, Inc.
    avatar: https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/...
    url: https://github.com/sampleuser
```

## Update spelling/expect.txt file with your ID

The spell checker will flag your user ID as an unrecognized word.
You can manually add this string to the
`.github/actions/spelling/expect.txt` file
as part of your PR,
although the easiest way to handle this is to push your PR
then resolve the error as discussed on the
[Spell Checker](spell-check.md)
page.

## Blog source code

Your blog should be developed using the standard Git
flow documented in
[Working with Git](../general/git/index.md).
When you have created a local branch:

* Create a .md file in the `docs/blog/posts` directory.
  Give the file a meaningful name;
  remember that many people from different organizations
  may be contributing to this directory.

    You do not need to modify the `mkdocs.yml` file for your blog.

* If your blog has graphics, screen shots, YAML files, etc.
  that will be included,

>   create an `assets` subdirectory for those files
>   in a subdirectory that has the same name
>   as the root name of your .md file.
>   For example, if your source file is named `myblog.md`
>   (which is not actually detailed enough to be a good file name),
>   you need to create a myblog/assets subdirectory.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  create a subdirectory that has the same name
  as the name of your .md file.
  For example, if your source file is named `myblog.md`
  (which is not actually detailed enough to be a good file name),
  you need to create a myblog subdirectory.
  Then put any assets you want to reference in that newly
  created folder.
```

* Follow the instructions in
  [Blog front matter](#blog-front-matter)
  to provide the metadata required by the blog plugin.

> * The text that follows the `#` line until the first `##` line
>   is the introduction to your article
>   and also the abstract that is displayed on the "Blogs" landing page.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* All text before the `<!-- more -->` comment is the introduction to your article
  and also the abstract that is displayed on the "Blogs" landing page.
```

Other coding notes for blogs:

* Blog posts are considered part of the MkDocs NAV path.
  This means that:

    * Use the practices documented in
      [External links and internal cross-references](code-docs.md/#external-links-and-internal-cross-references)
      for your blog.
    * You can use a local build to render your blog locally as you write.
      See
      [Build documentation locally](local-building.md)
      for details.
    * The `readthedocs.build` preview associated with your PR
      contains the rendered version of your blog
      so that you and your reviewers can see it.

## Blog front matter

The blog plugin requires some information to manage the blog.
This is specified as part of the file's metadata.
Here we document the fields that are required.
Additional fields can be added; see the
[blog plugin documentation](https://squidfunk.github.io/mkdocs-material/setup/setting-up-a-blog/#writing-your-first-post)
for more information.

> ```md

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```markdown
```

---
date: YYYY-MM-DD

> authors: [<GitHub-UserID>]

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
authors: [<author-identiefier>, ...]
```

description: >
  <Brief description of this blog, all in one source line>
categories:
  - <cat-1>
  - <cat-2>
  - ...
comments: true
---

# <blog title>
```

### Blog front matter fields

> * **date** -- Date when blog was most recently posted

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* **date** -- Date when blog was most recently posted.
  This can also be in the future. Then, the blog post will be hidden until the date is reached.
```

> * **authors** -- Author of this blog,
>   identified by the Github User ID that is used as the key
>   in the `docs/blog/.authors.yml` file.
>   This is used to generate the author information
>   that is displayed.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* **authors** -- Author(s) of this blog,
  identified by the author identifier that is used as the key
  in the `docs/blog/.authors.yml` file.
  This is used to generate the author information
  that is displayed.
```

* **description: >** -- Brief description
* **categories:** -- Keywords used to generate entries in the "Categories"
  section of the "Blogs" landing page.
  Set as many categories as appropriate and use reasonable terminology.

>   If an existing category matches a category you want for your blog,

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  If an existing category matches a category you want for your blog post,
```

  be sure to match that terminology exactly.
  For example, "Installation" is an existing category
  so it would be inappropriate to define "Installing" as a category.
* **comments: true**

> * **blog-title** -- The title that is displayed for your blog,
>   coded as a level 1 (`#`) header.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* **blog-title** -- The title that is displayed for your blog post.
  Only use this, if you want the blog post to have a different title compared to
  what is coded as a level 1 (`#`) header in your post.
```

Author: I don't think this is right. I was using `blog-title` as the text for the `#` line so it makes no sense to say this is populated only if you want a title that is different from what is in the # line.

Reviewer 2: I thought there's a metadata field for that but looking at the docs, there's none. Only for the slug which is used in the URL.
So I think we could fully remove this since there's no field named `blog-title`

Author: Ah, so you were viewing `blog-title` as a metadata field.  I reworked the material a little bit -- we need to state that the title is coded as an H1 and explain about the text that is both intro and abstract but it does look better this way, I think.

Reviewer 2: yea i considered it as part of the front matter since it was explained there 😄 
but the explanation looks good now, i like it!

### Front matter example

> ```md

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```markdown
```

      for your blog.
    * You can use a local build to render your blog locally as you write.
      See
      [Build documentation locally](local-building.md)
      for details.
    * The `readthedocs.build` preview associated with your PR
      contains the rendered version of your blog
      so that you and your reviewers can see it.

## Blog front matter

The blog plugin requires some information to manage the blog.
This is specified as part of the file's metadata.
Here we document the fields that are required.
Additional fields can be added; see the
[blog plugin documentation](https://squidfunk.github.io/mkdocs-material/setup/setting-up-a-blog/#writing-your-first-post)
for more information.

```markdown
---
date: YYYY-MM-DD
authors: [<author-identiefier>, ...]
description: >
  <Brief description of this blog, all in one source line>
categories:
  - <cat-1>
  - <cat-2>
  - ...
comments: true
---

# <blog title>
Text that serves as abstract and introduction to your article.
It can be multiple paragraphs.
<!-- more -->
```

### Blog front matter fields

* **date** -- Date when blog was most recently posted.

>   This can also be in the future. Then, the blog post will be hidden until the date is reached.

Author: ```suggestion
  This can also be in the future.
  Then, the blog post will be hidden until the date is reached.
```

published as part of the web site,
and built using the same tools and GitHub practices
as other documentation.
However, you must take a few additional steps when writing a blog post.

Keptn uses the
[blog plugin from mkdocs-material](https://squidfunk.github.io/mkdocs-material/setup/setting-up-a-blog/)
to manage the blog infrastructure.
To integrate your post with the blog plugin,
you must also do the following:

* Create an entry in the `docs/blog/.authors.yml` file if
  you're not in it already.

* You can use any identifier for yourself
  in the `docs/blog/.authors.yml` file, but it
  must be added to the `.github/actions/spelling/expect.txt` file
  so that the spell checker knows about it.

* Blog source is added to the `docs/blog/posts` directory.
  Individual blog posts are not listed in the `mkdocs.yml` file
  like other documentation.
  Instead, the blog plugin manages integration of all blog posts
  in the `blogs` directory.

* Additional metadata is required as part of the blog post file's front matter.

Each of these requirements is discussed on this page.

## Populate docs/blog/.authors.yml file

The value of the `authors:` field in the blog post's front matter

> links to an entry in the `blogs/authors.yml` file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
links to an entry in the `docs/blog/.authors.yml` file.
```

* If your blog has graphics, screen shots, YAML files, etc.
  that will be included,
  create a subdirectory that has the same name
  as the name of your .md file.
  For example, if your source file is named `myblog.md`
  (which is not actually detailed enough to be a good file name),

>   you need to create a myblog subdirectory.
>   Then create an `assets` subdirectory to that sub-directory
>  and put any assets you want to reference in that newly
>   created subdirectory.

Reviewer 2: We don't require an assets directory here :) just the blog subdir is enough to hold auxiliary files for a blog post
```suggestion
  you need to create a `myblog` subdirectory.
  Then put any assets you want to reference in that newly
  created subdirectory.
```
